Sustainability, Community, and the Future of Work


GoImpact Capital Partners
2023

Introduction to Corporate Sustainability 
Business Case for Sustainability 
Introduction to Key Global Movements & Sustainable Development Goals
Managing Business Risks with Sustainability Lenses

Sustainability, Community, and the Future of Work

2
2


The Future of Work
Social Responsibility of Business & Strategic Community Investments
Methods to Strategize and Understand the Impact Delivered
Understanding Inputs, Outputs and Impacts 
Measuring Change Delivered 
Reporting Community Investment
Introduction to the Importance of Sustainability Reporting
Quiz
 
 
 
Sustainability, Community, and the Future of Work

3
3


I have heard of this term, but need to know what it is.
I know what it is, but I need to understand how this concept operates.
I have a clear idea of this concept, but I have yet to gain work experience with it.
I can explain what it is, and I have work experience as a Sustainability Professional.

Warm-Up Question
4
How familiar are you with   Corporate Sustainability?
4
4

Introduction to Corporate Sustainability
5

“Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” 
 
Bruntland Commission, 1987
 (Formerly the World Commission on Environment & Development)
6
Sustainable Development

Sustainable development, sustainable growth, and sustainable use have been used interchangeably, as if their meanings were the same. They are not. 

Sustainable growth is a contradiction in terms: nothing physical can grow indefinitely. 

Sustainable use is only applicable to renewable resources. 

Sustainable development is used in this context to mean: improving the quality of human life whilst living within the carrying capacity of the ecosystems.
7
Defining Sustainability Terms

Sustainability is also defined as 
“the possibility that humans and 
other life will flourish on the Earth forever”
 
John Ehrenfeld, 
Sustainability by Design
 Source: IUCN, UNEP, WWF, 1991

8
Sustainable Development
VIDEO: Understanding sustainability through an Indigenous knowledge lens
Indigenous wisdom

Consider how your decisions today would benefit your descendants.

Cree Indian prophecy

“When the final tree is chopped down, the last fish is eaten, and the last stream is poisoned, you will know that you cannot eat money.”

Think how will we leave 
the planet for the next generations.
VIDEO: Seven Generations https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHg3enCCyCM



How will the world function for the next generations if vital resources become scarce? 


9
M1

Refere: COP15 agreement
9

500 B.C.
The principles of CSR appear in Classical Athens
1950s
First scientific discussions on CSR in USA
1953 Bowen
“Social responsibility of businesses has to orientate on social expectations and values.”
1970s
Companies, as an integral part of society, have the same rights and duties as others and in order to benefit from non-monetary social achievements they should act responsibly.
2015
Paris Agreement and launch of the UN Sustainable Development Goals
2011
Porter and Kramer claim that the purpose of a corporation must be redefined as creating shared value
2005
The European Commission launches the European Roadmap for Businesses
Historical Development of Sustainability and CSR Concepts
1987
Brundtland Report – “sustainable development meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”
2001
Green Paper European Commission
2000
Adoption of the UN MDGs
1999
World Economic Forum in Davos – Kofi Annan appeals for a Global Compact for human rights, working standards and environmental protection
2018
The EU Directive 2014/95/EU requires large companies to disclose non- financial and diversity information starting on their 2018 reports
The Evolution of Sustainable Development
10

Ask; what developments have there been since 2000?

Answer: COP26, COP27, COP15, Singapore developments

10

11
Sustainable Development
A classical sustainability primer brings you to a tangible world and shows you how to develop systems thinking skills. 
The book “Thinking in Systems” provides for us a set of tools for understanding what it takes to become a genuinely sustainable society.
It explains what systems are, how these systems work, and how can one sustain them, in order to achieve success in life.

A system consists of elements (like team members), interconnections (the relationships and rules governing relationships, including policies and procedures), and a function or purpose. 
Only the behavior of the system can truly tell you what its purpose is.
Resilience is a very important factor that helps determine if the system functions well or not. 
Resilience is the elasticity of a system, or its ability to recover from transition.
The world is full of systems. These systems are interconnected and interdependent.  
In order to make some semblance of these systems that govern the world, it is essential to learn to recognise and study the patterns and behaviours they exhibit.
Meadows was an American environmental scientist, educator, she is best known as lead author of the books The Limits to Growth and Thinking In Systems: A Primer.

The earlier Meadows and colleagues book The Limits to Growth from 1972 was commissioned by the Club of Rome.

The problems facing the world – war, hunger, poverty, global warming can not be solved by fixing one piece in isolation, because seemingly minor details have can have big impacts. We need to see the whole system and understand how each piece interacts. 


12
Corporate Sustainability
Corporate sustainability is an evolving corporate management paradigm. 

Although the concept acknowledges the need for profitability, it differs from the traditional growth and profit-maximization model in that it places a much greater emphasis on environmental, social, and economic performance, and the public reporting on this performance.


Source: Wilson, 2003
Corporate sustainability can be viewed as a new and evolving corporate management paradigm. The term ‘paradigm’ is used deliberately, in that corporate sustainability is an alternative to the traditional growth and profit-maximization model. While corporate sustainability recognizes that corporate growth and profitability are important, it also requires the corporation to pursue societal goals, specifically those relating to sustainable development — environmental protection, social justice and equity, and economic development.
A review of the literature suggests that the concept of corporate sustainability borrows elements from four more established concepts: 1) sustainable development, 2) corporate social responsibility, 3) stakeholder theory, and 4) corporate accountability theory. The contributions of these four concepts are illustrated in Figure 1.
Wilson, Mel, 2003. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY: WHAT IS IT AND WHERE DOES IT COME FROM? Ivey Business School https://iveybusinessjournal.com/publication/corporate-sustainability-what-is-it-and-where-does-it-come-from/


Drives Internal Innovation
Improves Environmental and Supply Risk
Attracts and Retains Employees
Expands Audience Reach and Builds Brand Loyalty
Reduces Production Costs
Garners Positive Publicity
Helps You Stand Out in a Competitive Market
Sets the Industry Trend

Harvard Business School, 2021



13
8 Benefits Of Sustainability In Business


14
 Evolution of ESG
In January 2004, Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, asked the CEOs of 55 major financial institutions to join a new initiative under the auspices of the Global Compact titled “Who Cares Wins.”

The study “Who Cares Wins” marked the first use of the term ESG. The paper stated that incorporating ESG drivers into investments would not only benefit the company. It would also make good business sense.

“A better inclusion of environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) factors in investment decisions will ultimately contribute to more stable and predictable markets, which is in the interest of all market actors.” (“Who cares win – Connecting Financial Markets to a Changing World,” UN Global Compact, 2004).

From 2004 to 2016, the ESG term did not receive enough attention. In 2016, Larry Fink (BlackRock), sent a letter to S&P 500 companies and large corporations expecting ESG to be integrated into their portfolio businesses. Later, the ESG term began to gradually rise and then explode by 2019 (Pollman 2022).
Pollman 2022.The Making and Meaning of ESG, https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4219857



15
ESG Principle
ESG focuses on non-financial reporting and targets an 
audience of investors in publicly traded and listed organizations.

ESG stems from responsible investment. The principles for responsible investment related to publicly traded or listed businesses define responsible investment as “a strategy and practice to incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in investment decisions and active ownership”. 

ESG is usually a standard and strategy used by investors to evaluate corporate behavior and future financial performance. 

As the European Banking Authority states, ESG factors are “environmental, social or governance matters that may have a positive or negative impact on the financial performance or solvency of an entity, sovereign or individual”. 

ESG is an investment philosophy that pursues long-term value growth, and it is a comprehensive, concrete, and down-to-earth governance method. 
The ESG principle is a framework system including environmental (E), social (S), and governance (G) factors.
Source: ESG: Research Progress and Future Prospects, Wang, 2021
le. The ESG principle has been developed following its formal UN proposal. The concept of ESG is gradually becoming mainstream. ESG is an important driving force to trigger the sustainable development of enterprises, and the interactive relationship between its dimensions is also a key point that deserves attention.

Li, T.-T.; Wang, K.; Sueyoshi, T.; Wang, D.D. ESG: Research Progress and Future Prospects. Sustainability 2021, 13, 11663. https://doi.org/10.3390/su132111663

Climate change • Carbon emissions • Water stress • Renewable energy • Natural capital 


Human capital • Labor standards • Human rights • Privacy and data security • Community engagement • 


Corruption and bribery • Business ethics • Board pay • Board diversity • Ownership
16
Breaking down E, S and G

 Sustainability vs ESG
17
Source: SeedCulture 2022
Sustainability is what a business *does* to tackle environmental & social issues - and may mean different things to different entities. Sustainability reporting looks at the impacts that a business has on society and the environment (inside out impacts).

ESG is how a business *reports* on a set of Environmental, Social, and Governance criteria, that impacts its ability to attract capital from investors. 
About the difference. Sustainability is often used interchangeably with Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) in a business context. It is important to note that while they cover similar topics, they are not the same thing.
Sustainability is what a business *does* to tackle environmental & social issues - and may mean different things to different entities. Sustainability reporting looks at the impacts that a business has on society and the environment (inside out impacts).
ESG is how a business *reports* on a set of Environmental, Social, and Governance criteria, that impacts its ability to attract capital from investors. ESG disclosures look at the risks of environmental, social, and governance factors on the business (outside in impacts).
https://seedculture.io/




https://assets.ey.com/content/dam/ey-sites/ey-com/en_gl/topics/public-policy/ey-global-sustainability-thought-leadership.pdf

17

Nearly three-quarters (73%) of companies that have issued sustainable finance instruments
say it has improved their ability to put in place robust internal accountability metrics. (ING, 2021)

18
Source: ING, 2021
How 2020 Affected Investors’ ESG Practices

Nearly three-quarters (73%) of companies that have issued sustainable finance instruments
say it has improved their ability to put in place robust internal accountability metrics. (ING, 2021)

19
Source: ING, 2021
Companies’ Most Urgent Sustainability Priorities

19

Hannah Jones 


VIDEO

 “You must have a massive capacity for understanding systems change, the ability to be flexible and to understand how to affect change. And it is really about enabling others to make change.”
20
VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xUScJ18Ezpo

Hannah Jones was the VP of Sustainable Business and Innovation at the time of this video.  She is then became its CSO and CEO of Nike Valiant Labs, a green incubator.  She is now the CEO of the Earthshot Prize, which is awarded to designs that help to repair the planet. 
20

Which elements of ESG seem to be reflected in this interview?

What were some of the driving factors that caused the company to incorporate ESG into their strategy?

What can we learn from this case?
21
Dig Deeper: Hannah Jones
21

Corporate sustainability is an alternative to the traditional growth and profit-maximization model. 
While corporate sustainability recognizes that corporate growth and profitability are important, it also requires the corporation to pursue societal goals, specifically those relating to sustainable development — environmental protection, social justice and equity, and economic development.
 ESG is an investment philosophy that pursues long-term value growth, and it is a comprehensive, concrete, and down-to-earth governance method.
Summary
22
22

The Business Case for 
Sustainability
23
Students suppose to learn how to sell sustainability ideas to their employers. This part shows why a business should care.

24
Why Sustainability Matters
A business using best-practice sustainability approaches can increase its profit by 51% (for small or medium enterprise) to 81% (for a large manufacturing / distribution company).


VIDEO & DASHBOARD

The Sustainability Advantage Dashboard
Use the dashboard and enter your own business numbers or apply a sample company data:
Bob Willard Sustainability Dashboard
The simulator provides a quick estimate of the potential profit for a company if it were to simply implement smart sustainability strategies that have already been proven by real companies.
Bob Willard mentioned in the video is a leading expert on quantifying and selling the business value of corporate sustainability strategies. Bob applies his business and leadership experience from his 34-year career at IBM Canada to engage the business community in proactively avoiding risks and capturing opportunities by using smart environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. 

Sustainability in Business = 51% to 81% MORE PROFIT, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KlW8-WW0k3g, show until 4.10 to save time

The simulator: https://sustainabilityadvantage.com/sustainability_dashboard/dashboard-3-2.php  This dashboard has an error that could not be resolved and has been removed. 


24

25
Why Sustainability Matters
Corporate sustainability and profitability are interrelated

The key findings regarding the relationship between sustainability and the cost of capital, operational performance, and stock price performance

90% of the cost of capital studies show that sound Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) standards lower the cost of capital.
88% of the studies show that solid ESG practices result in better operational performance.
80% of the studies show that stock price performance is positively influenced by good sustainability practices.


 ‘Responsibility and profitability are not incompatible, but in fact wholly complementary’.


GL Clark, A Feiner, M Viehs, 2015. From the stockholder to the stakeholder: How sustainability can drive financial outperformance. The Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford and Arabesque Asset Management, https://formafutura.com/assets/documents/2015-University-Oxford-From-the-Stockholder-to-the-Stakeholder.pdf


The Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford and Arabesque Asset Management explored more than 200 academic studies and sources dealing with sustainability, with a focus on the connection between corporate social responsibility and profitability. According to the report, ‘responsibility and profitability are not incompatible, but in fact wholly complementary’.

25

26
Corporate sustainability and profitability are interrelated (2)

Managers will only gain from incorporating sustainability into their strategic decisions, as will institutional investors and trustees if they ‘require the inclusion of sustainability parameters into the overall investment process’.

Investors should be active owners and exert their influence on the management of their invested companies to improve the management of sustainability parameters that are most relevant to operational and investment performance.

Asset management companies will only gain from incorporating sustainability in investment procedures.

The future of active ownership will most likely be one where multiple stakeholders (such as individual investors and consumers) are involved in setting the agenda for the active ownership strategy of institutional investors.
Why Sustainability Matters
GL Clark, A Feiner, M Viehs, 2015. From the stockholder to the stakeholder: How sustainability can drive financial outperformance. The Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford and Arabesque Asset Management, https://formafutura.com/assets/documents/2015-University-Oxford-From-the-Stockholder-to-the-Stakeholder.pdf

Report ^^ 
26

27
Corporate sustainability and profitability are interrelated (3)

Between 2006 and 2010, the top 100 sustainable global companies experienced significantly higher mean sales growth, return on assets, profit before taxation, and cash flows from operations in some sectors compared to control companies.

During the 2008 recession, companies committed to sustainability practices achieved “above average” performance in the financial markets, translating into an average of $650 million in incremental market capitalization per company.

Companies with superior environmental performance experienced lower cost of debt by 40-45 basis points.

Companies with strong corporate responsibility reputations “experience no meaningful declines in share price compared to their industry peers during crises” versus firms with poor Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reputations.

Why Sustainability Matters
GL Clark, A Feiner, M Viehs, 2015. From the stockholder to the stakeholder: How sustainability can drive financial outperformance. The Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford and Arabesque Asset Management, https://formafutura.com/assets/documents/2015-University-Oxford-From-the-Stockholder-to-the-Stakeholder.pdf

Box 4: 
companies with strong corporate responsibility reputations “experience no meaningful declines in share price compared to their industry peers during crises” versus firms with poor Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reputations whose reputations declined by “2.4-3%; a market capitalization loss of $378M per firm.

27

28
The business case for ESG investing is empirically very well founded 

The search for a relation between environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria and corporate financial performance (CFP) can be traced back to the beginning of the 1970s. 

The results show that the business case for ESG investing is empirically very well founded, according to the research of about 2200 individual studies. 

Roughly 90% of studies find a nonnegative ESG–CFP relation, with the large majority of studies reports positive findings. 

The positive ESG impact on CFP appears stable over time. 
Why Sustainability Matters
Gunnar Friede, Timo Busch & Alexander Bassen (2015) ESG and financial performance: aggregated evidence from more than 2000 empirical studies, Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment, 5:4, 210-233, DOI: 10.1080/20430795.2015.1118917

Promising results are obtained when differentiating for portfolio and non-portfolio studies, regions, and young asset classes for ESG investing such as emerging markets, corporate bonds, and green real estate.

28

29
The potential financial impact from sustainability issues can range from 25% to as high as 70% of EBITDA
Risk Management: impact on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation & amortization 
(EBITDA) 
Source: Profits with purpose: How organizing for sustainability can benefit the bottom line, Mckinsey, 2014
Why Sustainability Matters
https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Business%20Functions/Sustainability/Our%20Insights/Profits%20with%20purpose/Profits%20with%20Purpose.ashx

29

30
Why Sustainability Matters
Securing funds 
ESG-labeled Assets under management (AUM) are poised to reach $41 trillion by the end of 2022 year (Kishan, 2022).
Attracting and retaining talent
71% of professionals say they would consider taking a pay cut to work at a company that aligns more with their values 
Building credibility
Consumers are 7x more likely to buy from a brand they trust 
Broadening your customer base
Nearly 6 in 10 consumers are willing to change their shopping habits to reduce environmental impact 
Reducing costs
Sustainability initiatives help to increase efficiency and lower the overall cost of operations
Growing your business
Companies driven by purpose post compound annual growth rates of 9.85% compared to 2.4% for the S&P 500 overall (Korn Ferry 2022).

30
 Future of Work Trends in 2022: The new era of humanity (kornferry.com)
Saijel Kishan, 2022. ESG by the Numbers: Sustainable Investing Set Records in 2021. 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-03/esg-by-the-numbers-sustainable-investing-set-records-in-2021?sref=s3uske1y

30

31
ESG was born as an equities phenomenon, but the field known as sustainable debt has soared in recent years, with issuance exceeding $1.6 trillion in 2021. 
The transactions bring the total market to more than $4 trillion since inception.
Sustainability-linked bonds and loans had a large role to play as the fastest-growing themes in the ESG fixed-income market. 


Why Sustainability Matters
Source: Kishan, 2022
Source: Bloomberg NEF, Bloomberg L.P. 
 Future of Work Trends in 2022: The new era of humanity (kornferry.com)
https://about.bnef.com/blog/sustainable-debt-issuance-breezed-past-1-6-trillion-in-2021/

Saijel Kishan, 2022. ESG by the Numbers: Sustainable Investing Set Records in 2021. 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-03/esg-by-the-numbers-sustainable-investing-set-records-in-2021?sref=s3uske1y

31

32
Money held in sustainable mutual funds and ESG-focused exchange-traded funds rose globally by 53% last year to $2.7 trillion, with a net $596 billion flowing into the strategy, according to Morningstar Inc.
The increase takes into account a revision in Europe, where regulators are imposing stricter rules to define what can be labeled a sustainable fund. 
The new classification resulted in more than 1,000 European funds being removed from the sustainable universe, the research firm said, adding that it expects to pull more funds.
Source: Kishan, 2022 
Why Sustainability Matters
Note: Figures in trillions of dollars
Source: Morningstar Inc. 
 Future of Work Trends in 2022: The new era of humanity (kornferry.com)
Saijel Kishan, 2022. ESG by the Numbers: Sustainable Investing Set Records in 2021. 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-03/esg-by-the-numbers-sustainable-investing-set-records-in-2021?sref=s3uske1y

32

33
Globally, the asset-management industry earned $1.8 billion in fees last year from their sustainable funds, up from almost $1.1 billion in 2020, Morningstar reported. 
Historic inflows resulted in lucrative fees for the biggest sustainable fund managers led by Parnassus Investments, which topped the rankings with a record $320.7 million of fees. 
Affiliated Managers Group Inc. bought a controlling stake in the San Francisco-based firm last year. 
Morgan Stanley’s Eaton Vance, which owns one of the oldest responsible-investing firms -- Calvert Investments -- was second with $227.7 million of fee revenue. 
BlackRock Inc., which runs the world’s biggest ESG exchange-traded fund, followed with $116.5 million of fees from sustainable products sold by its iShares unit.
Source: Kishan, 2022 
Why Sustainability Matters
 Future of Work Trends in 2022: The new era of humanity (kornferry.com)
Saijel Kishan, 2022. ESG by the Numbers: Sustainable Investing Set Records in 2021. 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-03/esg-by-the-numbers-sustainable-investing-set-records-in-2021?sref=s3uske1y

33

Sustainable design reduced environmental footprint reduced by 8.9%
3 Singapore firms on the 2021 Global 100 Rankings for Most Sustainable Companies

Recognitions
Green Port for 3 consecutive years.
Awarded to Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (MPA) by the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Port Services Network (APSN)
2019 Apex Corporate Sustainability Award Awarded to Changi Airport. 
Level 3 of the Airport Carbon Accreditation Scheme Awarded to Changi Airport
34
Singapore’s Commitment to Sustainability
Sustainability - Visit Singapore Official
34

The Sustainable Singapore Blueprint of 2015
Focused on three key outcomes:
a liveable and endearing home, 
a vibrant  and sustainable city, 
and an active and gracious community.
These are achieved by moving towards:
eco-smart towns, a car-lite Singapore, 
a zero-waste nation, 
and becoming a leading green economy.
The Singapore Climate Action Plan
Seeks to reduce emissions intensity by 36% below 2005 levels by 2030, 
and to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions in 2030. 
This is achieved through:
the economy-wide price signals sent by carbon taxes, 
improving energy efficiency by 1%-2% annually, 
adopting green building practices to ensure 80% of all buildings are green by 2030, 
improving mass transport networks and accessibility, 
investing in cleaner sources of power, and 
encouraging households to become more energy efficient.


 
35
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf

35

Green towns programme for more sustainable living
A ten-year plan designed to give effect to an annual energy 
consumption reduction of 15% in the Housing and Development 
Board towns by 2030. This would be achieved through efforts to:
reduce energy consumption, 
rainwater recycling, and 
cooling of the towns. 

Solar panels, smart LED lighting, urban water 
harvesting systems, cool coatings and urban farms 
will be used towards this end.

36
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf
36

Phasing out internal combustion engines by 2040

To have all vehicles run on cleaner energy by
2040, Singapore incentivises the adoption
of cleaner, more environmentally-friendly vehicles 
through the Vehicular Emissions Scheme,
the Electric Vehicle Early Adoption Incentive
and the revised road tax methodology. 
The country has pledged to expand public charging
infrastructure for electric vehicles and also
to procure and use cleaner vehicles for 
government purposes.


37
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf

37

Zero Waste Masterplan

Aiming to reduce 30% of
waste (per capita) that is sent to the landfill by
2030 and achieve an overall recycling rate
of 70%, the Masterplan promotes sustainable
consumption and the transition to a circular
economy. 

The Masterplan is supported by
Singapore’s landmark Resource Sustainability
Act, providing for the progressive introduction 
of extended producer responsibility for
e-waste and packaging waste. Along with
these waste streams, food waste is also a
priority waste stream for closing the resource
loop in Singapore.


38
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf

38

Meeting Singapore’s food needs, domestically

Singapore’s 30 by 30 goal aims to produce
30% of Singapore’s nutritional needs locally
by 2030, including in urban farms, LED-lit
and climate-controlled greenhouses, indoor
recirculating aquaculture systems, and contained systems 
for fisheries farming at sea.

The initiative is supported by a SGD 30 million ‘30x30 Express’ grant 
from the Singapore Food Agency.
39
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf

39

A green finance action plan

This 2019 strategy by the Monetary Authority
of Singapore (MAS) seeks to make sustainable finance 
a defining feature of Singapore’s role as an international 
financial centre. 

It will do so by building financial system 
resilience to environmental risks, developing markets,
and leveraging technology. 

40
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf

40

A green finance action plan

This includes strategic shifts in capital allocation 
away from carbon-intensive businesses to those 
that are greener, as well as the development of green
finance solutions and markets—including
through the MAS Green Bond Grant Scheme,
a Green Investments Programme worth 
USD 2 billion which funds public-market
investment strategies having a strong green
focus, and a Green Investments Programme
allocating USD 100 million to the Green Bond
Fund of the Bank for International Settlements.

41
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf

41

The Singapore Green Plan 2030 is a national sustainability movement which seeks to rally bold and collective action to tackle climate change, and to make Singapore a greener and more liveable home. 
It builds on Singapore's sustainability efforts over the past decades and sets ambitious and concrete targets for the next 10 years. 
What Are The Green Plan’s Key Targets?

- Plant 1 million more trees
- Quadruple solar energy deployment by 2025
- Reduce the waste sent to landfill by 30% by 2030
- At least 20% of schools to be carbon neutral by 2030
- All newly registered cars to be cleaner-energy models from 2030


 
42
VIDEO
The Plan is spearheaded by the Ministries of Education, National Development, Sustainability and the Environment, Trade and Industry, and Transport.
Visit https://www.greenplan.gov.sg for more info.
Singapore’s Sustainability Plans
VIDEO Singapore Green Plan 2030, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oNFeOl7pW9s


42

 If you could speak to the Singapore Green Plan 2030 creators, what would you ask?

What do you think should be changed in your community?

What implications might this Plan have for your job future?

Answer the following questions based on this Singapore Green Plan 2030 video:
Think Moment!
43
NO VOICE OVER. 
43

The business case for ESG investing is empirically very well founded, according to the research of about 2200 individual studies.
Even during the 2008 recession, companies committed to sustainability practices achieved “above average” performance in the financial markets. 
 Singapore has prioritised sustainability and placed it at the forefront of its long-term planning.
Summary
44
44

Climate Issues
45
new

46
Unchecked Impact of Climate Change
How Can Climate Change Affect Singapore?

Sea level rise
Water resources
Biodiversity and greenery
Effect on public health
Urban heat island effect
Food insecurity

How Climate Change Already Affected Singapore?

National Climate Change Secretariat: Singapore has undertaken three National Climate Change Studies.
From 1980 to 2020, the annual mean temperature has increased from 26.9°C to 28.0°C. The mean sea level in the Straits of Singapore has also increased at the rate of 1.2mm to 1.7mm per year in the period 1975 to 2009.
Rainfall has become more intense in recent years. 
In 2001, the first recorded cyclone near the equator, Typhoon Vamei, swept north of Singapore and caused flooding (NCCS 2022). 

47
Unchecked Impact of Climate Change
The Centre for Climate Research Singapore is a research division of the Meteorological Service Singapore.

Launched in 2020, the Climate Science Research Programme Office (CSRPO) under the Centre for Climate Research Singapore, will play a key role in Singapore’s response to the potential impact of climate change. 

The CSRPO will lead and drive efforts under a new National Climate Science Research Masterplan, aligning fundamental climate science research with national goals for climate adaptation and mitigation. 

Source: National Climate Change Secretariat, 2022
National Climate Change Secretariat https://www.nccs.gov.sg/singapores-climate-action/impact-of-climate-change-in-singapore/


October 2021 was the 4th Hottest on Record
Source: Climate.gov 
48
Source: Climate.gov 
48

Source: Climate.NASA.gov
49
The world is on track to reach 3 degrees or more in warming by the end of century 

49

Could push an additional hundred million people into extreme poverty by 2030 
Will cause the arctic to be ice free by summer 2040 
Means extreme flash floods will be more and more common
50
Unchecked Impact of Climate Change

Source: Climate.gov 
The carbon dioxide level hits a new high year on year


Unchecked Impact of Climate Change
51

Under a scenario with 1.5°C of warming above preindustrial levels by 2030, almost half of the world’s population—approximately 5.0 billion people—could be exposed to a climate hazard related to heat stress, drought, flood, or water stress in the next decade, up from 43 percent (3.3 billion people) today. 
Source: McKinsey, 2021
52
52

Source: C2ES Center for Climate & Energy Solutions
Carbon dioxide (CO2) causes planetary warming. 
53

CO2
Source: C2ES Center for Climate & Energy Solutions
www.teethailand-bangkok.com
CO2
54
The Greenhouse Effect & Human Activity

Source: C2ES Center for Climate & Energy Solutions
www.teethailand-bangkok.com
POLL:
What human activity generates the most CO2 worldwide ?
The Greenhouse Effect 
& 
Human Activity
CO2
55
55

CO2
www.teethailand-bangkok.com
Source: C2ES, Center for Climate & Energy Solutions
IEA, International Energy Agency
The Greenhouse Effect 
& 
CO2
56
56

Source: IPCC AR6 2021
57
Average Rise in Sea Level Relative to 1900

Meet Selina Leem
58
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MgD_TI5vQKY
58

Selina’s Teachable Point of View
59
What implications would rising sea levels have on your life, business, or industry?
What could be done to mitigate the implications?

Introduction to Key Global Movements & Sustainable Development Goals
60
You might want to start Session 3 (of 5) from here. 

All UN members adopted the organization’s 17 (SDGs) in 2015. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals have 169 targets that specify what we want to achieve as a global community

Source: United Nations
61

https://www.google.com/search?q=sdg+wedding+cake+model&oq=sdg+wedding+&aqs=chrome.1.69i57j0i512j0i22i30l2j0i390l5.6769j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8#imgrc=mfY-KqGTwAzHQM

Wedding Cake Model of SDGs

Growing Focus on the SDGs
Achieving the SDGs will require between US$5 trillion and US$7 trillion in investment per year in developing countries alone.


Current annual investment in achieving the SDGs sits at US$1.4 trillion.

Investors are increasingly using the UN SDGs as a means of aligning with long-term environmental and social objectives.
SDGs: Some Notable Pointers
62
Source: UN, and World Investment Report, UNCTAD 2020, World Economic Forum
Note: This graph is from 2019
Achieving the SDGs will require between US$3 trillion and US$5 trillion in investment per year in developing countries alone (UN Commission on Trade and Development).
Note that the graph is from 2019 and the investment needed to meet the SDGS have nearly doubled. 

https://unctad.org/system/files/official-document/wir2020_en.pdf#page=199

https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/08/sustainable-development-funding-is-broken-heres-how-to-fix-it/
62

COP26: Global Climate Pact
COP 26 is a step in the right direction but, even if the commitments are met, we will still have to manage both Physical risks and Transition risks.
63
Climate Action Tracker: https://climateactiontracker.org/

GFANZ Glasgow Finance Agreement to Net-Zero
63

64
Cop27 : Global Climate Pact
Conference of the Parties 27 marks the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
“Loss and Damage” Fund: 
Agreed to establish a dedicated fund for vulnerable developing countries
This agreement was hailed as a “landmark achievement” and “breakthrough agreement”  
However, very few details on how this will be administered and implemented

Mitigation Work Program: 
Aimed at scaling up mitigation efforts and implementation until 2030
Governments were requested to revisit and strength their 2030 targets in their national climate plans by the end of next year 

Renewal of former commitments: 
Commitments made in Paris and Glasgow were renewed 
However, no stronger climate goals and ambitions were committed 

Source: United Nations Climate Change, Reuters
https://unfccc.int/news/cop27-reaches-breakthrough-agreement-on-new-loss-and-damage-fund-for-vulnerable-countries
https://dfge.de/cop27-results-key-findings-and-summary/
https://unfccc.int/news/cop27-reaches-breakthrough-agreement-on-new-loss-and-damage-fund-for-vulnerable-countries

64

Singapore & SDGs
65
Singapore’s Sustainable Development Progress in 2022
SDG Index Rank 

60/163

Singapore’s current ranking among UN member states, in terms of SDG progress



SDG Index Score 

71.1/100

A weighted score that measures overall progress toward achieving the 17 SDGs outlined by the UN. 


Spillover Score

33.0/100

A country’s positive or negative effects on other countries’ ability to achieve the SDGs. 

Higher score = More positive 

Source: Sustainable Development Index Dashboard
https://dashboards.sdgindex.org/profiles/singapore


https://ycpsolidiance.com/article/green-sustainability-in-singapore

Note: In 2021

SDG Index Rank: 76/165
SDG Index Score: 69.9/100 
Spillover Score: 20.55/100 
65

Singapore & Agenda 2030
66
https://ycpsolidiance.com/article/green-sustainability-in-singapore

66

Sustainable Development Goals & UNDP
UNDP supports countries in three different ways, through the MAPS approach.

Mainstreaming
Acceleration
Policy Support

Mainstreaming: Providing support to governments to reflect the new global agenda in national development plans and policies (underway in many countries)
Acceleration: Supporting countries to accelerate progress on SDG targets. 
Policy support: Making the UN’s policy expertise on sustainable development and governance available to governments at all stages of implementation.
67
67

While the SDGs are not legally binding, governments are expected to take ownership and establish national frameworks for the achievement of the 17 goals.


Countries have the primary responsibility for follow-up and review of the progress made in implementing the Goals, which will require quality, accessible and timely data collection.

Regional follow-up and review will be based on national-level analyses and contribute to follow-up and review at the global level.
SDGs: Some Notable Pointers
68
68

Designed to mobilize businesses to align their strategies and operations with a set of core principles that address  human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption practices. 
Source: UN Global Compact
10 Principles of the UN Global Compact
69
69

UN Global Compact:
Uniting Business for a Better World
VIDEO:

UN Global Compact
70
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K4gbPvEvNIw
70

The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals have 169 targets that specify what we want to achieve as a global community. There are currently 247 indicators used to measure progress.
 Investors are increasingly using the UN SDGs as a means of aligning with long-term environmental and social objectives.
Voluntary commitments and multi-stakeholder partnerships made by stakeholders also in Singapore support the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and the UN Global Compact.
71
Summary
71
71

Managing Risks with Sustainability Lenses
72
new

85%
Need additional SCR knowledge in the future
A study from Global Association of Risk Professionals indicated
15%
Believe their organization has a current strategy
95%
Developing a strategic plan
to climate risk
73
Meet the Growing Demand

Risk assessments should account for impact on the asset as well as the costs.

Major Risks involving:
Physical Risks - tangible impact on company assets, & surrounding infrastructure and key stakeholders.

Transition Risks – shifts in climate & environmental policy associated technologies and changing consumer preferences.

Human Risks – mass migration due to the adverse living conditions.
74
Climate-Related Risks

New Opportunities including:

New Customer bases / markets

Product Innovation

New Business Models 

Mitigation of Costs
75
Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities


76
The bulk of all investments is channeled towards mitigation in transport and energy systems
76

Source: World Economic Forum, 2022
“How Do You Feel About the Outlook for the World?”
77
84.2% of nearly 1,000 global experts and 12,000 country level leaders (across 124 nations) are either concerned or worried about the state of the world.

Global Outlook
77

“What is your outlook for the world over the next three years?”
Negative Scenarios
Positive Scenario
78
Source: World Economic Forum, 2022
Global Outlook
78

The greatest global risk is the climate crisis. 
79
Most Severe Global Risks Over Next 10 Years
Source: World Economic Forum, 2022
What risk  is forgotten? The wars are not mentioned, but they also create enormous risks.

79

80
Anticipated Timing of Critical Threats
Source: World Economic Forum, 2022
80

Global Potentially 
Damaging Risks & Their Effects
81
Source: World Economic Forum, 2022
81

Between 1970 and 2016, the average decline in vertebrate populations was 68%

82
82
M1
82


Extreme weather events with major damage to property, infrastructure and loss of human life.
Failure of climate-change mitigation and adaptation by government and business.
Major biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse (terrestrial or marine) with irreversible consequences for the environment, resulting in severely depleted resources for humankind as well as industries.
Major natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and geomagnetic storms.
Human-made environmental damage and disasters, including environmental crime, such as oil spills and radioactive contamination.
83
Top 5 Global Risks
Source: World Economic Forum, 2022
83

84
Global risks Likelihood & Impact
Source: World Economic Forum, 2022
84

VIDEO:

Localizing the SDGs in ASEAN: Case Studies
85
SDGs in ASEAN
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h_bvvop61nY
85

What were you thinking as you watched these stories about SDGs in ASEAN?


Do you think these projects will help to improve the livelihoods of the people involved?


What implications might this have for the future?


Answer the following questions based on this video:
Think Moment!
86
NO VOICE OVER. 
86

Discuss the sustainability challenges within your assigned sector and be sure to capture as many challenges as possible. 

 Group 1 Banking 
 Group 2 Transportation & Logistics
 Group 3 Energy & Materials
 Group 4 Consumer Goods
 Group 5 Waste Management


87
Industry Challenges
87

MSCI ESG Research harnesses this data by harnessing 2 fundamental questions:
88
88



Industry Challenges: Group’s Industry

Sustainability Challenges:
Discuss the sustainability challenges within in your assigned sector and be sure to capture as many challenges as possible. Include additional slides if necessary. 
89
89



Industry Solutions: Group’s Industry

Sustainability Solutions:
Discuss sustainability solutions within in your assigned sector and be sure to capture as many solutions as possible. Include additional slides if necessary. 
90
Discuss sustainability solutions within in your assigned sector and be sure to capture as many solutions as possible. Please identify solutions that should already be in place as well as though which may be more aspirational within your industry. 
90

Risk assessments should account for impact on the asset as well as the costs.
The bulk of all investments is channeled towards mitigation in transport and energy systems. 
Majority of experts are either concerned or worried about the state of the world.
Risk assessments should include impact from the wars and planning for the potential impacts of nuclear winter.
Summary
91
91

The Future of Work
92
You might want to start Day 3 from here

The Future of Work
Sources: Accenture and World Economic Forum
“By 2025, 50% of all employees will need reskilling and that as many as 85 million jobs may be rendered redundant by advances in technology. However, this disruption also brings opportunities, with as many as 97 million new jobs created.”
The 4 defining features
93
M1
https://www.accenture.com/sg-en/blogs/future-cities/future-workforce-why-singapore-needs-a-new-workforce-vision-for-a-smarter-greener-future

Shifting Mindsets
Sources: Fixing the talent gap to deliver on ESG goals, Korn Ferry, 2022
A Mindset shift towards building long-term resilience, regenerative approach to business, and reinventing capitalism is necessary. You need to embrace sustainability and understand the purpose before real change happen. 

But a mindset shift also means embodying certain values to drive positive change
Innovators, agitators for change
Ability to see others perspectives 
Forward-thinking 
Confidence, courage and grit to not be cowed by the prospect of marginalisation

Developing talents from a school age to drive sustainability in the workplace is crucial.


94
M1
ESG and sustainability is a very fast moving space. It’s constantly developing to meet the immediate and future needs of society and our planet 
Sources:
Peter Bakker
President and CEO, World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
https://sdg-action.org/reinventing-capitalism-a-mindset-shift-to-transform-everything/



Embracing Sustainability & ESG


 Sources: Korn Ferry, 2022
The time has come for a more people-focused approach to ESG. 
Working tirelessly with environment scientists to find a path to net zero is important. But if you aren’t considering how your people are going to take you down that path, your efforts are bound to fall short.

To walk the talk on ESG and sustainability, there are five critical people questions that organizations will need to address.

The purpose question: Why are we doing this, who are we trying to satisfy, what is our time horizon, and how do we measure success?
The governance question: How does our board need to evolve to oversee, enable, and support delivery of our ESG strategy?
The leadership and talent question: How do we attract, develop, and retain the leadership, talent, and skills needed to drive ESG strategy and outcomes?
The operating model question: How do we organize to deliver our ESG and sustainability strategy?
The culture and mindset question: How do we create the right culture and mindsets, engage our people, and reinforce the right behaviors?

95

Talent Gap: Growth of Green Jobs 
Source: Eco Business
Asia-Pacific has seen 30% growth in hiring for green jobs between 2016 to 2021

The US experienced 70% growth in green jobs, and Europe 41%
Green and Greening jobs account for 10% of hiring globally

But there is a global shortage of talent, skills, and jobs to delivery the transition to a green economy




M1
There is a global shortage in the talent, skills and job to deliver the transition to a green economy. We won’t have sufficient human capital to meet our climate targets

Over the past 5 years, the number of jobs in renewables and the environment in the United States has increased by 237%. In contrast, oil and gas jobs have only grown by 19%

Talent Gap
Source: Eco Business
Fastest- growing green skills are in ecosystem management, environmental policy, and pollution prevention. 

Companies state that around 40% of workers will need reskilling for up to 6-months to perform sustainability-focused jobs well.


Job postings that require green skills grew at 8% annually over the past five years, but people with the right skills have only grown by about 6%


The gap in the skills needed to do green jobs will continue to be high through to 2025, as in demand skills across jobs change. 

97
M1

Talent Gap in the Green Fintech
Singapore's Green FinTech ecosystem is in its scaling-up stage and close to the mature stage. The key Green FinTech initiatives:

ASSOCIATIONS: Singapore FinTech Association; Singapore Green Finance Centre
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS: DBS Bank, OCBC Bank, UOB Bank
GREEN FINTECH STARTUPS: CO2 Connect; MetaVerse Green Exchange; STACS
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT: Project Greenprint; Singapore Green Bond Framework; ESGenome; Singapore Green Plan 2030; Sustainable Bond Grant Scheme; Green Finance Industry Taskforce
INCUBATORS & ACCELERATORS: FinLab accelerator; F10 Climate FinTech incubator; Mbanq LABS accelerator
PARTNERSHIPS: Climate Impact X; CO2 Connect; Project Greenprint

Sustainability-related education is imperative to building a mature green FinTech ecosystem. It will raise awareness, push the demand for green finance, and cultivate the talent needed for green FinTech Development in Asia.
98
The working paper, Exploring the Green Fintech Ecosystem in Asia: Insights from Five Economies in APEC, finds government support and talent development are crucial in driving the growth of green fintech.

Hong Kong and Singapore Lead Green Fintech Development Among the Five Economies in APEC – CUHK Business School



Green-ing Singapore’s Job Market
Source: Skillsfuture Singapore
Over 450 job roles across 17 sectors require these skills 
Singapore saw a 41% growth in demand for talent to fill sustainability manager roles
99
M1
https://www.jobstreet.com.sg/career-resources/plan-your-career/5-skills-and-5-jobs-for-a-career-in-sustainability/

This describes top 5 jobs in more detail.

The Crash Course: Sustainable MBA


This textbook for green job market provides the knowledge and tools to:
help you ‘green’ your job and organisation, 
to turn sustainability talk into action for the benefit of your bottom line and society. 

The textbook is organised like a business school course, allowing you easy access to the relevant information you need about sustainability as it relates to Accounting, Economics, Entrepreneurship, Ethics, Finance, Marketing, Organizational Behavior and HR, Operations and Strategy.

Tips from the book: what can I do for sustainability?

As an employee - leading by example
As a consumer - putting your money where your mouth is
As a citizen - be active in your community


100

https://content.yudu.com/web/2y3n2/0A2y3n3/GEO-6-for-Youth/html/index.html?page=30&origin=reader

This UNDP resource is aimed at youth though comprehensive in nature.

All of the industries (graphic) can be green 

Nine traditional fields (outer ring)
​and five job sectors (inner rings),
​with green segments grouped into four
​categories: infrastructure; tangible;
​intangible; and nature


Greening the Job Market
To reach the goal of creating an environmentally sustainable world, every job will eventually need to be green or at least greener
But green careers will also be available in these sectors


Source: UNEP, 2021
101

https://content.yudu.com/web/2y3n2/0A2y3n3/GEO-6-for-Youth/html/index.html?page=30&origin=reader

All of the industries (graphic) can be green 

Nine traditional fields (outer ring)
​and five job sectors (inner rings),
​with green segments grouped into four
​categories: infrastructure; tangible;
​intangible; and nature


The Immediate Future: Energy Sector 
Jobs range from lower-skilled work in construction, installation and manufacturing to professional jobs in things like engineering and project management 
Sources: World Economic Forum
13,000 projects in the renewable energy sector could help develop 10 million jobs in 50 countries around the world
102
M1
In a report, EY said the projects offered $2 trillion in investment opportunities that would generate jobs locally and in supply chains, and would help slash climate-heating emissions and secure a green recovery from the pandemic.

Sources: 

https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/07/clean-energy-investment-green-jobs

https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/08/these-are-the-skills-young-people-will-need-for-the-green-jobs-of-the-future/

Talent Gap: Energy
Source: Remodeling the Future, Capgemini, 2021

While 64% of organizations say they plan to implement energy-storage solutions in the future, only 19% are doing it 

70% lack the capabilities to develop new-energy business models 

62% lack in-house skill sets to develop, sell, and manage services 


New Energy Business Model 
103
https://www.capgemini.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/New-Energy-Business_WEB-1.pdf

104
In 2022/2021:
Pledge net zero operational carbon by 2030 (Signed World GBC Net Zero Carbon Buildings Commitment 
Achieved 42% reduction in carbon emissions intensity against 2007 levels 
Over s$34 million in energy savings from energy-efficient retrofitting and initiatives across all its commercial buildings from 2012 to 2021
City Development Limited 
Corporate Ethos 
“Conserving as we construct” 
CDL has: 
Chief Sustainability Officer 
Board sustainability Committee
Sustainability Committee Across Business and operational units
Sustainability Manager
CDL has set up:
Singapore Sustainability Academy (partnership with the Sustainable energy association)
 a dedicated space designed for collaboration for green buildings and sustainability practices with the focus on training sustainable energy professionals and experts in Singapore 
CDL Green Gallery
Zero-energy gallery 
My Tree House 
A Green library to nurture children to become ‘eco warriors’

104
M1
https://www.cdlsustainability.com/pdf/CDL_ISR_2022.pdf
https://www.50climateleaders.com/city-developments-limited-building-a-resilient-future/

Global real estate company in 29 countries - Portfolio covers residences, offices, hotels, service apartments, shopping malls, and integrated deelopment

104

Developing talents from a school age to drive sustainability in the workplace is crucial.
There is a global shortage of talent, skills, and jobs needed to transition to a green economy. We won’t have sufficient human capital to meet our climate targets.
 Singapore saw a 41% growth in demand for talent to fill sustainability manager roles.
Summary
105
105

Social Responsibility of Business & Strategic Community Investments
106

107
Social Responsibility of Business
Social Responsibility of Business has evolved due to the concept of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).

The understanding of corporate responsibility has evolved from being limited to the generation of profit to include a broader set of responsibilities to the latest belief that the main responsibility of companies should be the generation of shared value (Agudelo 2019).


107
Latapí Agudelo, M.A., Jóhannsdóttir, L. & Davídsdóttir, B. A literature review of the history and evolution of corporate social responsibility. Int J Corporate Soc Responsibility 4, 1 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1186/s40991-018-0039-y

107

Strategic community investments: voluntary contributions or actions by companies to help communities in their areas of operation address their development priorities, and take advantage of opportunities created by private investment—in ways that are sustainable and support business objectives.
108
Strategic Community Investments
108
Please mention how stakeholder groups are especially important. A multi-stakeholder approach reduces company control but adds value by building local ownership and complementarity around shared interests.

IFC. Strategic Community Investment: A Good Practice Handbook for Companies Doing Business in Emerging Markets, June 2010. https://ppp.worldbank.org/public-private-partnership/library/strategic-community-investment-good-practice-handbook-companies-doing-business-emerging-markets



108

Source: International Finance Corporation, 2010
Key Elements of Strategic Community Investments
109
The goal is to create “shared value” by investing in those areas that are high priority for communities and government and that also make business sense (in terms of what unique value a company can offer over other actors, and alignment with business objectives).
109

Community investment goes hand-in-hand with a company’s stakeholder engagement efforts. Each stakeholder group has different information needs and expectations from an organization. The stakeholder engagement process should be able to identify them.
Understanding relationships & influence

Stakeholders are distinguished between Primary and Secondary. They are different for each organization. They also change depending on strategic priorities and time. 
Primary stakeholders
Secondary Stakeholders
Stakeholders who are critical to the company’s existence & activities
Stakeholders who are affected indirectly by a company’s activities & decisions
Stakeholder Groups and Their Expectations
110
110

Stakeholder Groups
Board and senior management team
Understanding the dimension of sustainability material to the company.
Needs and expectations of stakeholders.
Dimensions of performance.
Investors
Employees
Sustainability performance (stable and respected company).
Levels of remuneration.
Retirement benefits.
Employment opportunities.
Contribution to society.
Environmental protection.
Economic performance.
NGOs
Understanding company values, principles, attitudes, performance and goals.
Environmental protection, equal opportunities, human rights.
Customers
Prosperity of the company.
Values and attributes of company.
Social risks linked to activities/products/services.
Environmentally and socially friendly products.
Suppliers
Understanding risks and opportunities that affect their business.
Demands they may face from being part of the supply chain.
The Public
Employment opportunities.
Sourcing inputs.
Support to community projects.
Environmental performance.
111
111

The Stakeholder Engagement Process
Not all stakeholder groups (internal and external) influence the organization or are influenced by the organization equally.

Hence, an organization must be able to identify its key stakeholders. In doing so, there are some general factors the organization must consider.
Stakeholder Engagement Process
112
112

Competitors
Consumer
groups
Insurers & 
Litigators
The Media
General
public
Advertisers
Radical 
groups
Local
community
Media
Regulators

Company

Analysts
Shareholders
Employees
Government
Clients
Unions
Celebrities & 
Role models
Suppliers
Retailers
Stakeholder Engagement 
113
113

Responsibility
Influence
Proximity
Dependency
Representation
An organization must be able to identify its key stakeholders. 

Here are some factors the organization must consider:
114
Stakeholder Engagement: Factors To Consider


114

Responsibility: those who connect with your organization in legal, financial and business regulations, contracts and/or policies.
Proximity: those which your organization relies upon for everyday activities and those who live close to operation locations.
Influence: those who can influence the achievement of the goals of your organization, those who have influence in an unofficial capacity and those who have official authority to make decisions internally or externally.
Dependency: those who depend more on your organization, customers who rely on your products/services, or suppliers of which you are a major customer.
Representation: those who represent major institutions with which your organization interacts (e.g. trade union representatives, community leaderships, local authorities).
115
Stakeholder Engagement: Factors To Consider
115



Expectations: Stakeholder Group 1 
Identify at least three primary stakeholder groups and capture as many expectations per group as possible. In what ways might various stakeholder groups share expectations? In what ways might they have competing expectations. Get specific.
Expectations: Stakeholder Group 2 
Expectations: Stakeholder Group 3
Think Moment: Stakeholder Expectations
116
116

 
The pandemic changed the stakes for companies’ performance on social issues. The support they gave their employees – and even their wider communities – became critical to operational resilience. 
117

 
118


Journey of Community Investing
VIDEO

Temasek: more than 300,000 lives in Singapore and across Asia have been impacted by the various programmes that the non-profit organisations have supported.
119
A Lookback At Our Journey of Community Investing - YouTube
119

1. How does Temasek approach the needs of the present and future generations in its video?
2. Do you see community investment ideas that can be applied to your organization as well?
Answer the following questions based on the Temasek video:
Think Moment!
120
120

Methods to Strategize & 
Understand the Impact Delivered 
121
new

Impact Delivered
122
Experience suggests that companies that focus on high-quality initiatives in a few, well-defined areas tend to achieve greater impact and recognition than companies with Community Impact programs that spread resources across many different types of activities.
122

Think Short Term and Long Term (but Emphasize Long Term) 

Any good strategy will have both short-term and long-term objectives. Different types of investments can be used to respond to business needs at various stages of the project. 
Each has its advantages and disadvantages. For example, the benefits of “quick impact” projects and donations need to be weighed carefully against the risks of creating dependency. 
While it is not realistic to expect every activity a company supports to have sustainable, long-term impacts, past experience has shown that lasting development impacts and goodwill are not usually achievable through short-term projects. 
For this reason, productive investments that build social and human capital (such as skills training, enterprise development, institutional strengthening, knowledge transfer, and economic empowerment) should ideally make up the bulk of the CI portfolio. 

Impact Planning
123
123



Impact Planning & Communicating

124
If planning and measuring value is important, communicating that value is equally important. 

For business benefits derived from community investment to be optimized, stakeholders at the local, regional, and international levels need to know about these investments and the value they create.

124

Measuring the Change Delivered

125
125

For each company, MSCI identifies the level of exposure to each key issue by applying:
Exposure Metrics
To identify how exposed the company is to issues relevant to its industry
Based on:
80+ geographic metrics and business metrics
Management Metrics
To identify how well the company manages key issues 
Based on:
20 performance metrics
100 governance metrics
150 policy/program metrics
126
126

Measuring Change Delivered
127
new

Source: C2ES Center for Climate & Energy Solutions
Strategizing & Understanding Impact
Decide on a framework
Identify your metrics
Understand your attribution
Get the timing right
Value qualitative data
Recognize your own accountability
Be open to learning
Use tools to help
128
Source: Sustainalytics
https://www.sustainalytics.com/impact-metrics

Source: OECD, 2021
129
Measuring Social Impact Investment
129

Policy-makers need to ensure that impact is 
measured
Measuring Social Impact Investment
130
Source: Social Impact Investment: The Impact Imperative for Sustainable Development, 2019, OECD


130

Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals is not just about financing but also shifting where the financing is going, innovating new approaches, addressing data gaps and putting the right policies in place. (OECD)
Social impact investing combines funding, innovation, accountability,  and sustainability.
131
The Impact Imperative
Source: Social Impact Investment: The Impact Imperative for Sustainable Development, 2019, OECD
https://www.oecd.org/dac/financing-sustainable-development/development-finance-topics/Social-Impact-Investment-2019.pdf

131

Understanding Inputs, Outputs & Impacts
132

Understanding Inputs, Outputs, & Impacts
133

Basic point; if you want to achieve ESG impacts then ESG has to be built into the core - see next slide
133

New Strategy Embeds ESG at Core
134
NO VOICE OVER. 
134

Allocating resources in a few well-defined areas generates a more significant impact as compared to spreading out across numerous activities.
Communication, measurement, and planning are all crucial components to understanding the impact delivered.
In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, we need to shift where financing is going, measure impact, be aware of impact washing, address data gaps, and innovate new approaches. 
Consider ESG at the core of supply chain design for greater impact.
Summary
135
135

Reporting of Community Investment
136
Start Day 4 from here

Source: International Finance Corporation, 2021
137
7 Steps to a Robust Community 
Investment Strategy
Developing a Community Investment strategy is an iterative, multi-step process with some steps taken internally by the company and others requiring engagement, feedback, and multi-stakeholder processes.

I couldn’t find this model in the IFC 2021 report, could it be else where?
137

Reporting of Community Investment
Source: Community Impact Consultants, 2021
138

‘Community Impact Consultants, 2021’ seems to be a category of consultants rather than a specific organisation.  Can we confirm the source?
138

 
Summary
For the private sector, community investment—a subset of overall social performance and corporate responsibility—is linked to competitiveness and to creating an environment conducive to private investment. 

Companies around the world engage in community investment efforts as a way to promote local development and benefit stakeholders in their areas of operation. 

Stakeholder engagement considers the following factors: responsibility, influence, proximity, dependency, and representation.

The crises like pandemic changed the stakes for companies’ performance on social issues. The support they gave their employees – and even their wider communities – became critical to operational resilience. 
139
139

Introduction to the Importance of Sustainability Reporting

Reporting Guidelines for Sustainability
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Integrated Reporting Guidelines 
UN Global Compact 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Standards related to Sustainability (ESG)  
SA 8000
Accountability 1000 (AA1000)
ISO 26000
ISO14000, 
Eco Management Audit Scheme (EMAS)
WRI GHG Protocol 
B-Lab
Rating Indices (ESG) 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index
FTSE 4 Good
CSR Hub
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
Guidelines and Rating Indices on Sustainability
141
A sustainability rating is a measure of how well a company is performing in terms of ESG. Ratings providers assess companies across a range of criteria. Getting a sustainability rating can help your business improve its performance and protect its reputation.

[Actually a rating is a place on a index it doesn’t assess ‘performance in terms of ESG’ it determines performance against a peer group - who is ‘doing least harm’!  The only performance assessment I’ve come across that measures progress towards the SDGs is the Future-Fit Business Benchmark Tool, with the ‘benchmark’ being achievement of the SDGs.]
141

Source: The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment, 2021 
142

143
Why ESG Score Matters
“Evidence is emerging that a better ESG score translates to about a 10 percent lower cost of capital as the risks that affect your business, in terms of its license to operate, are reduced if you have a strong ESG proposition.”







Robin Nuttall, a global leader in McKinsey’s ESG and Regulatory service line

An ESG score is an objective measurement or evaluation of a given company, fund, or security’s performance with respect to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) issues. 

Specific evaluation criteria vary between the different rating platforms that issue ESG scores; however, they all fall within one (or more) of the E, S, or G categories (CFI 2022).
https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/strategy-and-corporate-finance/our-insights/why-esg-is-here-to-stay

CFI 2022.ESG Score by Noah Miller, ESG Score - Definition, Process, Implications & Purpose (corporatefinanceinstitute.com)


143

This Johnson and Johnson infographic exemplifies how it links the main pillars and goals of sustainability strategy to specific SDGs.
Reporting on the SDGs
144

Reporting on the UN SDGs is a member responsibility, members are the 192 countries that make up the UN.  Individual companies choose to link their ESG reporting to certain SDGs.  Unfortunately this has lead to ‘cherry picking’ which has lead to distortions in development programmes, thus the UN introduced the 10 Principles to encourage companies to balance their initiatives across a broader range of goals.
144

Sustainability Report FY21 Highlights

Video: Ikea
145
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etULbl_39F8 

Weblink to full report: https://about.ikea.com/en/sustainability/sustainability-report-highlights 

Ikea has sustainability related jobs such as: Sustainability developer, sustainabiltiy leader, sustainability manager, sustainability specialist 
145

What are some other changes Ikea can implement to accelerate their sustainability goal?

It is predicted that 64% of the younger generations will hold jobs that do not exist today. Based on the video, what do you think are some of the jobs? 

What implications might this have for the future?


Answer the following questions based on this video:
Think Moment!
146
146
146

A sustainability rating is a measure of how well a company is performing in terms of ESG. 

Rating providers assess companies across a range of criteria. 

Getting a sustainability rating can help your business improve its performance and protect its reputation. 

Nearly three-quarters of companies that have issued sustainable finance instruments say it has improved their ability to put in place robust internal accountability metrics.

Businesses like IKEA put great effort into corporate social responsibility. CSR has implemented  in  IKEA to help the company to evolve from being an economic capitalist to an economic environmentalist. 

CSR is a sustainable solution that can generate social, economic, and environmental benefits in  IKEA  where it has integrated  it  into  its  operational  practices. IKEA  emphasizes  heavily on  its  people,  planet,  and  profit  perspective.

147
Summary
147
147

Do Less. Do More. Do Now.
new


Within the context of your own company’s sustainability reporting, which activities could be included within the following categories:







What steps need to be taken or processes occur in order to take action? 

Do Less. Do More. Do Now. Act.
Dig Deeper
Do Less					Do More					Do Now
149
NO VOICE OVER. 
149

Sustainability development is the development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.

Through sustainability, businesses should create balanced stakeholder expectations in order to facilitate better corporate performance.

Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 interlinked global goals designed to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change.

ESG strategies incorporate participatory methods of monitoring and evaluation to build trust and local ownership of outcomes.

The engagement of the private sector to achieve the 2030 Agenda can be structured on three pillars: mobilization, alignment and impact. 
Here are the key takeaways from this module:  
Summary
150
M1
150

Appendix
new

Links and Resources

152
Videos

Seven Generations https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHg3enCCyCM
Hannah Jones: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xUScJ18Ezpo
Meeting Selina Leem: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MgD_TI5vQKY
Sustainability in Business = 51% to 81% MORE PROFIT, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KlW8-WW0k3g
UN Global Compact: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K4gbPvEvNIw
Temasek: A Lookback At Our Journey of Community Investing - YouTube
SDGs in ASEANs: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h_bvvop61nY
Singapore Green Plan 2030, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oNFeOl7pW9s
Ikea: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etULbl_39F8 

Resources
Gunnar Friede, Timo Busch & Alexander Bassen (2015) ESG and financial performance: aggregated evidence from more than 2000 empirical studies, Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment, 5:4, 210-233, DOI: 10.1080/20430795.2015.1118917
Li, T.-T.; Wang, K.; Sueyoshi, T.; Wang, D.D. ESG: Research Progress and Future Prospects. Sustainability 2021, 13, 11663. https://doi.org/10.3390/su132111663
Pollman 2022.The Making and Meaning of ESG, https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4219857
Wilson, Mel, 2003. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY: WHAT IS IT AND WHERE DOES IT COME FROM? Ivey Business School https://iveybusinessjournal.com/publication/corporate-sustainability-what-is-it-and-where-does-it-come-from/
Korn Ferry, 2021. Future of Work Trends in 2022. The new era of humanity. Message from Korn Ferry
McKinsey Report, Profits with Purpose by Sheila Bonini and Steven Swartz. https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Business%20Functions/Sustainability/Our%20Insights/Profits%20with%20purpose/Profits%20with%20Purpose.ashx
GL Clark, A Feiner, M Viehs, 2015. From the stockholder to the stakeholder: How sustainability can drive financial outperformance. The Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford and Arabesque Asset Management, https://formafutura.com/assets/documents/2015-University-Oxford-From-the-Stockholder-to-the-Stakeholder.pdf
EuroCham, Sustainability Whitebook, https://eurocham.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/WhiteBook_2020.pdf
Latapí Agudelo, M.A., Jóhannsdóttir, L. & Davídsdóttir, B. A literature review of the history and evolution of corporate social responsibility. Int J Corporate Soc Responsibility 4, 1 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1186/s40991-018-0039-y
International Finance Corporation.Strategic Community Investment: A Good Practice Handbook for Companies Doing Business in Emerging Markets, June 2010. https://ppp.worldbank.org/public-private-partnership/library/strategic-community-investment-good-practice-handbook-companies-doing-business-emerging-markets
Photos: unsplash.com
M1
152

153
Thank you
Please scan this QR Code to access our ‘Continuing the Sustainability Journey’ LinkedIn page

Congratulations for reaching the end of this course.
If you have any questions don’t hesitate to contact us.

153
